\JWlone{Introduction}
\label{sec:introduction}

A \JWdef{Secure Multi--Party Computation}{MPC} or \JWdef{Secure Function
Evaluation}{SFE} is the joint calculation of an arbitrary function $f$ with
private inputs from a set of mutually distrusting parties. The function has to
be evaluated correctly and the inputs have to be kept privately.  When the size
of the set of parties for a MPC is $2$, the computation is also called a
two--party computation. The area of research of secure multi--party computations
was founded by \emph{Yao's Millionaires' Problem} \cite{yao82}. The famous
Millionaires' Problem discusses two millionaires, who are interested in knowing
which of them is richer without revealing the actual values of their wealth. The
problem is evaluating the function $f(a, b) = a \geq b$, where the first
millionaire inputs the value of his wealth as $a$ and the second inputs $b$. The
result of the evaluation is either $false$ so the second millionaire is richer
or $true$ meaning the opposite. From the result and the own input, neither party
is able to calculate the wealth of the other millionaire. Another example for
real--world multi--party computations are democratic elections. The eligible
voters input their private vote and the result of the calculations is the
percentage breakdown.

\JWdefn{Oblivious Polynomial Evaluation}{OPE} \cite{naor99,naor06} is a special
case of SFE. In contrast to arbitrary functions that are known by the involved
parties, OPE only allows the first party to privately submit a polynomial $p$
and another party to evaluate the polynomial at one node $x$. The second party
obtains the result $p(x)$ without revealing $x$ to the first party or revealing
the polynomial $p$ to the second party. We find a secure and efficient OPE
protocol a useful and interesting primitive.

\JWdefn{Oblivious Affine Function Evaluation}{OAFE} \cite{davidgoliath} is a
primitive that allows---similar to OPE---to obliviously evaluate affine
functions. This thesis works out an efficient, secure, and implemented protocol
which realizes OPE based on OAFE. The presented approaches are also suitable for
general SFE (including \emph{Square \& Multiply} \cite{knuth81}), however the
security is only proved for OPE. The security of the protocol against passive
and active adversaries is in\-for\-ma\-tion--the\-o\-ret\-ically proved in the
\JWdefn{Universal Composability}{UC} framework \cite{canetti05}.


%
% RELATED WORK
%
\JWltwo{Related Work}
\label{sec:related-work}

The notion of security used in this thesis is \emph{universal composability} as
defined by Canetti \cite{canetti05}. The benefit of this notion is that
UC--secure protocols can be composed and ran concurrently while still staying
safe without the necessity of additional security proofs. Besides the notion of
security, Yao's \JWdefn{Garbled Circuit}{GC} approach \cite{yao86} is also
related to this thesis because Yao describes encrypted evaluation of (boolean)
circuits.  Despite the versatility of Yao's garbled circuits, the approach is
not suitable for arithmetic functions on large fields. Because the GC approach
requires embedded truth tables in every gate, an adoption to larger finite
fields would have the cost of a quadratic blowup of every truth table in every
gate (cf.\ \cite{naor99privacy}).

Besides the GC approach, this thesis is also related to \emph{Efficient
Multi-Party Computation Over Rings} by Cramer et al.\cite{cramer03}. The
difference is that Cramer's approach is based on the simulation of formulas by
bounded--width programs by Cleve \cite{cleve91} which does not support
\emph{Square \& Multiply} \cite{knuth81} and the complexity is slightly
polynomial in the number of arithmetic operations performed. The writings of
Naor et al.\cite{naor99,naor06} also describe OPE but are in polynomial
complexity and based on \JWdefn{Oblivious Transfer}{OT} \cite{rabin81}.

\emph{How to Garble Arithmetic Circuits} by Applebaum et al.\cite{gac2012} is
related closely to this. Many ideas used in this thesis are inspired by
Applebaum et al. The difference between the paper and this thesis, is that
Applebaum et al.\ rely on computational assumptions. In contrast, this thesis
does not rely on computational assumptions and switches some of the ideas to
\JWdefn{Oblivious Affine Function Evaluation}{OAFE} \cite{davidgoliath}. OAFE
allows oblivious evaluation of affine functions. This primitive is used to
encode arbitrary functions.


%
% ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
%
\JWltwo{Acknowledgments}

I wish to thank my advisor Daniel Kraschewski who supported me throughout the
research and writing of this thesis. He donated a large amount of his limited
time for discussions and explorations crucial for my thesis and allowed this
thesis to be my own work but steered me in the right direction when needed.  I
am also thankful for his patience introducing me to this exciting topic.


%
% Outline
%
\JWltwo{Outline}

This thesis starts by introducing the reader to the general methodology, which
is discussed in depth thereafter. Next, the security of the methodology gets
analyzed and proved in the UC framework. Since this thesis also implements the
proposed protocol, the implementation is covered to some degree. The
constructive work is then rounded out by an evaluation of both, the methodology
and the implementation. And since a large amount of the time taken for this
thesis was affected by researching, a quick tour of the discontinued approaches
is given to the reader.

% vim: set spell spelllang=en_us fileencoding=utf8 formatoptions=tcroql : %
